SMRTd
=====

SMRT stands for Small Modem for Router Turris. The modem is quite
simple device. It has no permanent memory, no web configuration
interface and no IP address. It just bridges the traffic on the
telephone line to the ethernet line.

SMRTd is a daemon that watches if there's a modem connected and, if it
is, feeds it with firmware and configuration and monitors its health.

Channel mappings
----------------

The ISPs tend to send multiple channels inside the telephone cable.
This may need some configuration, depending on the encapsulation used.

In one mode, the ISP provides VLANs. In such case, no special
configuration is needed and the VLANs are passed through to ethernet
as IEEE 802.1Q.

Another mode provides VCI/VPI for each channel. These need to be
mapped to VLANs, since it is the only reasonable way to send multiple
channels on ethernet. The modem allows mapping of up to 8 VCI/VPI
pairs to VLAN numbers and translates to them.

In case the configuration is provided, but the first mode is used,
nothing bad happens and the configuration is simply ignored.

Command line
------------

The daemon doesn't read any configuration files and is configured
through command line arguments.

`-f`:: This parameter expects one argument and it specifies file
  containing the firmware for the modem.
`-v`:: Version string of the firmware. This is used in case the modem
  already contains firmware to check it is up to date. If it matches,
  nothing is done. If it differs, modem is reset and new firmware is
  uploaded. Therefore, the firmware version provided must match the
  firmware.
`-i`:: Interface name to watch for the modem. This may be specified
  multiple times. In such case, all the interfaces are watched for
  presence of modem. Be aware that the interface needs to be plugged
  directly into the modem, so link up/down events are detected. Lines
  connected through switch chip won't work properly.
`-c`:: Mapping of VCI/VPI onto a VLAN. Three numbers follow, in order:
  - VLAN number
  - VCI
  - VPI

+
It is possible to specify it multiple times per interface. It
must be preceded by `-i` argument and only the preceding interface is
configured.

For example, this would watch two interfaces (`eth0` and `eth1`), map
two channels on the first one and none on the second.

  ./smrtd -f firmware.img -v '1.2.3' -i eth0 -c 24 1 24 -c 33 2 33 -i eth1

To change the configuration, simply restart the daemon. The modem
doesn't get restarted if it doesn't need to.

Interaction
-----------

The modem is just a simple bridge. There needs to be other software
handling the rest.

The modem provides VLANs on its ethernet. Therefore, the correct VLANs
need to be mapped and unpacked inside the router. It can be done by
specifying the interface name followed by dot and the VLAN number (eg.
eth0.13).

Many ISPs don't pass the internet directly through the line, but send
it encapsulated in PPPoE protocol. In such case the pppd daemon needs
to be running and configured to send the username and password.
